first steps in GNU/Emacs.
By Sylvie Xhaard
Translated to English by Sylvie Xhaard and Nigel Stoppard
For use with Oralux Linux
Last updated: 28/06/2004

"It is not obvious, but not insurmountable".

1 The basics of typing commands.
1.1 The menu
2 How to open or create a file.
3 To save  files.
4 Typing in Emacs.
4.1 To move in the document.
5 To surf the open buffers.
6 Using the directory editor.
7 Using the command line.
7.1 Using the man command in Emacs.
8 To quit.
9 Additional information.


1 The basics of typing commands
An example of a keyboard short cut is C-x, obtained while pressing =
simultaneously Ctrl and x.
example 1: the first command that you will find in this document is C-x =
C-f : press simultaneously  Ctrl key and x then press simultaneously =
Ctrl key and f

example 2: you will also find commands of the type C-x b  press =
simultaneously Ctrl key and x then the b key just on its own.

In Emacs there is also the Meta key. Referred to as M-
 this can be used in two ways.

Esc x that is press the Esc key and then press the x key.
Or Alt-x That is hold down the left Alt key while simultaneously =
pressing the x key.

It is up to you which method you use.
In this document holding down  the Alt key, and simultaneously   =
pressing a key is described.

1.1 The menu
As well as using the short cut keys that are described in this document =
there is also a menu bar that can be accessed.  These menus also include =
the short cut key that can be used while in the menu and the keybord =
short cut key.  To access this menu press the f10 key.  You will then be =
placed in a new buffer with instructions on the menus that can be used.  =
You can press the F key for the file menu, E for Edit, O for Options, B =
for Buffers, T for Tools and H for Help.  Once in a menu you can =
navigate it using the up and down arrow keys.  Press return to use that =
command or C-g to cancel.



2 How to open or create a file. 
To open an existing file or a new file use the short cut key.
C-x C-f
Then type the complete path of the file to be opened and its name.
E.G.: /home/knoppix/test
If the file exists, it will be opened. If it does not exist, it will be =
created.

3 To save files.
C-x C-s save your file
Emacs is helpful, it saves your work regularly.

Each time you open or create a file, this opens a new buffer within =
Emacs. If you forgot to save one of your opened files, emacs will ask =
you whether you wish to save the modifications at the time you quit =
Emacs.

4 Typing in Emacs
When typing in an Emacs buffer new lines will be created as you type. =
This is known as word wrapping. If you want to create a new line press =
the return key.
if you want to cancel a command when you are half way through typing it =
then you can use C-g.

4.1 To move in a document.
Alt-b moves the cursor to the preceding word and emacspeak pronounces it.

Alt-f moves the cursor to the following word and emacspeak pronounces it.

C-a moves the cursor to the beginning of the line and Emacspeak reads =
the line.=20


C-e moves the cursor to the end of the line and Emacspeak reads the =
line.
Alt-a moves the cursor to the beginning of the sentence and emacspeak =
pronounces it.


 
Alt-e moves the cursor to the end of the sentence and emacspeak =
pronounces it.



Alt-[ moves back a paragraph.

Alt-] moves forward a paragraph.

C-x [ moves back a page.

C-x ] moves forward a page.

Alt-< Moves to the beginning of the buffer.

Alt-> Moves to the end of the buffer.

5 To surf the open buffers. 
To switch between buffers one at a time use 
C-x o  The o stands for other buffer.

If you opened, and, or, created several files and you want to go from =
one to the other. No problem. Type 
C-x b
By default, if you press the Enter key, you turn to the last open buffer.
If you want to open another buffer, type its name, or simply the first =
letter and press the tabulation key (the name of your buffer appears =
automatically).
If this is not the buffer you want then press the tabulation key again.

Each buffer is associated with a process.  To close an open buffer, the =
process  should be killed with, 
C-x k  
Emacs Speak will then say kill buffer"?  This is a question, press =
return to confirm, kills the active buffer.  If you forget the return =
then the buffer may remain but with no content.

You can open a new buffer with a list of all the current buffers using =
the command, 
C-x C-b  
The name of each buffer is displayed on one line.  You can mark a buffer =
to delete with the d key.  When you are ready press the x key and all =
the buffers you have marked will be deleted.
6 Using the directory editor (Dired mode). 
C-x d
Type the complete path of the directory to be explored and press enter. =
A new buffer is opened. By default, the cursor is on the first letter of =
the first file or directory.You can move in the directory with the =
cursor keys Up and Down.
If your cursor is on a file, the Enter key opens the file.
If your cursor is on a directory, the Enter key opens the directory.

You can go up to the higher directory by selecting

..
(the second line of the listing) and press enter.

The dot on the first line stands for the current directory.

The following keys will also work in dired mode.
d marks a file for deletion.

u unmarks a file.

x will delete the marked files but will ask for conformation first.  =
Type yes or no as appropriate.  Or press return to confirm.

c copies a file.  You will be asked for a new name when you copy the =
file.

r rename a file.  You will be asked to rename the file.

Once in dired mode you can get a summary of the key strokes by pressing,
C-h m  
Since these info pages are in another buffer you will need to press C-x, =
o, to move to that buffer.

7 Using the command line (shell).
 Alt-x shell
( caution press Alt key and x then type shell)

Some useful commands:

whoami: tells you the user name you are logged in as.  (Thats who am i =
written as one word)

pwd :	print working directory

cd : Change directory
examples : 
cd .. go up to the higher directory
cd / go to the top of the system
cd  go to your home directory (/home/knoppix)
cd /mnt/floppy go to the floppy disc directory

ls : list files or directories

mkdir :	create a directory

cp : copy files
example : cp /home/knoppix/emacs.txt /mnt/floppy (copy the file =
emacs.txt to a floppy disc)

7.1 Using the man command in Emacs.
Man stands for manual. The man pages as they are referred to, can be =
used to get help on any command in Linux.  To use the man command type,
Alt-x man
Then enter the command you wish to view the manual pages of.

8 To quit. 
C-x C-c
This will put you at a command prompt with no speech.  Type,
 sudo halt 
before turning your computer off.
If you prefer to shut down with speech then you can go to a shell prompt =
with Alt-x, and type, 
shell  
Then at the prompt type
sudo halt. 
The CD will be ejected.  Note if you shut down using this method then =
you will not be prompted to save any unsaved buffers.

9 Additional information.
C-h i m 
Brings up the Emacs FAQ.

C-h t 
Brings up the emacs online tutorial.

C-h k 
Brings up documentation of the function for the following key sequence.

As Oralux is improved new emacs packages will be added.  To find out =
what packages are available press,
C-h p

This will give you a list of available packages.

Some of the current packages include.
cdtool, a CD player that works with Emacs.
ERC, an Internet Relay Chat client (IRC) for Emacs.
ispell, a spell checker for Emacs.

