mcvox in a nutshell

* Contents
1. Introduction
1.1 Main panel
1.2 Menu
1.3 Configuration
2. Tour
2.1 Quiting mcvox 
2.2 Browsing files
2.3 Menu Bar
2.3.1 Command Menu: Find File
2.3.2 File Menu: Find File
3. Brief function keys summary

* 1. Introduction
mcvox is a Midnight Commander derivative which can be rendered via an auditory
user interface, a braille display or a tiny screen.

Hopefully, mcvox will remain a temporary solution: if the screen
readers can have more capabilities for rendering a complex 2D textual
layout, the visually impaired user would directly run applications
such as Midnight Commander. Otherwise, the dired mode under Emacs,
already proposes an intuitive file browser. 

** 1.1 Main panel

mcvox proposes only one panel listing the current directory, one
filename at a time. Arrow keys control navigation (next or previous
filename), the insert key is used to select files and the Function
Keys perform operations such as renaming, editing and copying files. 

** 1.2 Menu

The user interacts with mcvox using shortkeys or menu.

The menu bar proposes simple actions, or more elaborated ones relying
on forms.

The forms are composed of regular fields such as input fields,
checkboxes and submit buttons. 

** 1.3 Configuration

The mcvox configuration under Oralux is: 

+ Defaut editor: 'ne'
+ Pager: w3m
+ Convert PDF, doc or swx (OpenOffice) files to text files
+ play audio files (wav, mp3, ogg)

* 2. Tour
** 2.1 Quiting mcvox

There are three steps:

+ Firstly press F10.
A label is displayed: 
"Do you really want to quit the Midnight Commander"

+ Then press the bottom arrow key to display the related action:
Button: yes

+ press return to accept it.

** 2.2 Browsing directories and files
mcvox starts by displaying the list of directories and files in the current
directory. The top line indicates the current directory path. Below,
only one line is displayed, this is a filename (or directory name) of
the current directory. The cursor is upon this line.

At the very beginning, this line indicates the very first directory: 
/..

That is slash dot dot.

The slash symbol indicates that a directory name is displayed.
The dot dot symbol indicates the parent directory. For jumping to the
parent directory, you would have to press the Enter key. 

For displaying the first filename starting by the d letter, just press d.
For displaying the first filename starting by the di letters, just press d
and i; the i must be pressed as soon as possible after the d letter.

Press the bottom arrow key to display the next filename, and the up
arrow key for the previous filename.

Whether a filename is displayed, press return to open it.

To come back to the very first "dot dot" directory in the list, just
press the Home key. The End key jumps to the last filename.

** 2.3 Shortkeys

+ Press F7 for creating a directory. 
The label displayed is:
"enter directory name:"


** 2.3 Menu Bar
+ Press the F9 key; the menu bar is displayed in the top line; the
cursor is upon this line. For quitting the menu bar, press the Escape
key twice; the cursor then come back to the list of directories and
files.

The menu bar is composed of four menus:
Left, File, Command, Options.

The left and right arrow jumps horizontally from menu to menu.
The up and down arrow keys activate a menu and displays its
actions.

** 2.3.1 Command Menu: Find File
+ For example, press the right arrow key until the Command menu is
displayed.

+ Then press the bottom arrow key: the first action is 
"find file  escpae ?"
The action "find file" is bounded to the Escape key + question mark
character.

+ Press return to activate the "Find File" action.
A label is displayed:
"Filename:"

+ Press the bottom arrow key to display the related field:
"Input:*"
This line means:
"Input:" : this is an input field.
"*": the input field is already filled with the asterisk meta
character.
It means that any filename will be searched for.

+ Suppose you only want to look for the filename with the txt extension.
Then enter in the input field:
"*.txt"

+ Press now the bottom arrow key for jumping to the next field.
A label is displayed:
"Content:"

+ Press the bottom arrow key to display the related field:
"Input:"

+ Suppose you only want to look for files which include the mcvox
keyword.
Enter in the input field:
mcvox

+ Press the bottom arrow key to display the related field:
The line displayed is
"Checkbox: case sensitive"

If you want to activate this checkbox, press the Space bar.

Then an asterisk is added at the beginning of the line:
"*Checkbox: case sensitive"

+ Press the bottom arrow key to display the related field:
"*Button: ok"

This is the OK button. The asterisk means that this button is the
default choice.

+ Press Return and your search starts.
The files found are listed, you can browse the list using the up and
down arrow key, and press Enter to open a file or press the Escape key
twice to quit the list.

** 2.3.2 File Menu: 



* 3. Brief function keys summary
F1: Help
F2: Menu
F3: View
F4: Edit
F5: Copy
F6: Rename or Move
F7: Make directory
F8: Delete
F9: Menu bar
F10: Quit

