Hello, 
you are reading this text using Emacspeak.

Contents.

1. How to save my preferences ?
2. How to save my documents ?
3. How Oralux Talks.
4. Getting  Started.
5. Oralux FAQ.

1. How to save my preferences ?
You will probably wish to save the volume, the type of keyboard, and
any other preference set using the introductory menu which you have
interacted with during boot time.
Idem for the other files as for example the internet parameters.

Saveconfig is able to save these files to the hard disk, a floppy disk, a USB key,...
For the following boots, these parameters will be automatically searched for. 
Here is the sequence under Emacspeak.

Start a shell buffer:
ESCAPE x shell
It means: press the ESCAPE key, then the x key and finally type shell. 

Start the saveconfig script:
saveconfig

Then, you will supply which and where configuration files will be saved.

2. How to save my documents ?
The directory where you will easily store your documents is /home/knoppix.
By default, this directory is in ramdisk. As soon as your computer will be turned off, this directory will be lost!
In fact, if you want to, this /home/knoppix directory may be placed in your hard disk or a USB key.
At the following boot, this directory will be automatically searched.
Here is the sequence under Emacspeak.

Start a shell buffer:
ESCAPE x shell

Start the mkpersistenthome script:
mkpersistenthome

You will select where your home directory might be stored.
Then, quit Emacspeak and boot up your PC.
Control+x Control+c
That is, first, hold down the
Control key and press x, then release both of them.
Second, hold down the
Control key and press c.

Finally, reboot your computer:
sudo reboot

3. How Oralux Talks.

Besides the synthesizer, two programs work together to make Oralux talk. One is
called Emacs, and the other, Emacspeak. Emacs is a text file editor with many
enhancements which make it a very powerful tool for doing virtually everything
on the computer. Emacspeak is a set of extensions which make the whole thing,
or the vast majority of it, talk. This means that to make this system work you
will eventually learn to use both emacs and emacspeak.

When Emacspeak is run, the first thing it does is to start Emacs. Then item
starts the speech extensions. So you can run emacs for silent operation or
Emacspeak for speech use.

4. Getting  Started.

The tutorials "My first steps in GNU/Emacs" and "The Calendar and the Diary" by Sylvie Xhaard are under the directory :
tutorials/en

A good place to start with Emacs is the Emacs tutorial. 
You can do this now by pressing Control+h, t. That is, hold down the
Control key and press h, then release them both and press t.

If you are new to Emacspeak, you may want to read the Emacspeak Info pages:
Control+h, i, m Emacspeak.
Since Emacspeak is running now, you can get to its FAQ by pressing Control+e, Shift+f.

A list of Emacspeak key bindings is in the Emacs help system; use Control+h,
Control+e.

The Emacspeak mailing list archive:
http://www.cs.vassar.edu/~priestdo/emacspeak/

5. Oralux FAQ.

The Oralux FAQ is an HTML page.
To read it, start the w3m web browser to read the file:
ESCAPE x w3m-find-file RETURN

and then type:
/cdrom/KNOPPIX/faq.htm 


6. Feedback.
We would be grateful if you may supply feedback about your Oralux experience.
The email is:

contact@oralux.org

Hoping, you will enjoy Oralux.

