The Calendar and the Diary
By Sylvie Xhaard
For use with Oralux Linux
Last updated: 20/03/2004

1. The Calendar
	1.1 Run the calendar
	1.2 Movement in the calendar
	- by days
	- by weeks
	- by months
	- by years
	1.3 Modify the day of week begin
	1.4 Exit from calendar

2. The Diary
	2.1 Commands to add to the Diary
	2.2 Commands displaying Diary entries

3.Appointment notification


1. The calendar
	1.1 Run the calendar
	Type M-x calendar
	The calendar display three-months centered on the current month, with point on the current date.

	1.2 Movement in the calendar
	By days
	- left arrow key : move-point one day backward
	-right arrow key : move-point one day forward
	Go to specified date
	type g d
	type the year ( by default, it's the current year) and enter
	type the month and enter
	type the day and enter
	By weeks
	- up arrow key : move-point one week backward
	- down arrow key : move-point one week forward
	By months
	- M-} : move-point one month forward
	- M-{ : move-point one month backward
	- M-a : move-point to start of month
	- M-e : move-point to end of month
	By years
	- C-x ] : move-point one year forward
	- C-x [ : move-point one year backward
	- M-<   : move-point to start of year
	- M->   : move-point to end of year

	1.3 1 Modify the day of week begin
	By default, weeks begin on Sunday. To make them begin on Monday instead, set the variable calendar-week-start-day to 1
	type : M-x set-variable (Enter)
		calendar-week-start-day (Enter)
		1 (enter)

	1.4 Exit from calendar
	type q

2. The diary
By default, your Diary will be save in diary file ( in your home)
The calendar window is always visible and  accessible.
Type C-x o (o not zero) for switch between calendar and diary
If you prefer the European style of writing dates -- in which the days come before the month--
type M-x european-calendar while in the calendar.
If you want to add time, write times in am/pm style or 24-hour European/military style.

	2.1 Commands to add to the Diary
	While in the Calendar, there are several commands to create diary entries
	All diary entry begin with the date.

	i d : add a diary entry for the selected date
	i w : add a diary entry for the selected day of the week
	i m : add a diary entry for the selected day of the month
	i y : add a diary entry for the selected day of the year
	i a : add an anniversary diary entry for the selected date
	i b : add a block diary for the current region
		to insert a block entry, place point and the mark (with C-SPC --SPC= SPACE KEY) on the two dates that begin and end, and type i b.
	i c : add a cyclic diary entry starting at the date
		the command prompt for the length of interval.

	2.2 Commands displaying Diary entries

	d : display all diary entries for the selected date
	s : display the entire diary file

3. Appointment notification

To enable appointment notification, you must add this text to your .emacs file (in your personal directory)
;; Calendar
(display-time)
(add-hook 'diary-hook' appt-make-list)
(diary 0)

When you display the diary (either with the d command in the calendar windows or with the M-x diary command), its sets up an appointment list of all the diary entries found with recognizable times of day, and reminds you just before each of them.

For example :
	9:20 Coffee break

You will be reminded at 9:20 about you coffee break

You can also use the appointment notification like an alarm clock. The command 'M-x appt-add' adds entries to the appointment list without affecting your diary file. You delete entries from the appointment list with 'M-x appt-delete'.


More informations type ?



