SES -Simple Emacs Spreadsheet
By Sylvie Xhaard
For Use with Oralux Linux
Last updated:  20/06/2004

1. Introduction
2.  Creation of a worksheet step by step
3. To move in the spreadsheet
4. Entering a formula
5. To edit the contents of a cell
6. Resizing the spreadsheet


1. Introduction

SES is a major mode for GNU/Emacs to edit spreadsheet files. A spreadsheet is a rectangular grid of cells. Each cell can contain text, a number or a formula.
To create a new spreadsheet, open a new buffer with C-x C-f, name it for example count.ses and type M-x ses-mode

By default, a newly-creating spreadsheet has 1 row and 1 column.
A cell identifier is a symbol with a column letter and a row number.
For example , the cell D5 is the intersection of the fourth column and the fifth line

2.  Creation of a worksheet step by step

We will create a worksheet which make it possible to calculate the total of the sales of three areas for the first quarter. It will be made up of 5 columns and 5 lines

Open a new buffer
C-x C-f
name it : sales.ses
Activate ses mode
M-x ses-mode

Press TAB for create a second column (B)
Repeat this operation to obtain 5 columns

Go back in cell B1
Type j (Jump to cell), You will be asked to enter cell's identifier, type B1 (in capitals)

Enter "January" in this cell.
To enter a string, begin with a double quote. The ending double-quote is inserted for you.
At prompt Cell B1 : type " January and Return
The text is to insert in the B1 cell, and the cursor moved in the cell C1
Enter February in  the C1 cell, March in the D1 cell and TOTAL in the E1 cell

Press Tab to insert a new line
The cursor is in cell A2
Enter North in the A2 cell
Enter 100 in the B2 cell. To enter a number into the current cell, just typing it
Enter 200 in the C2 cell an 300 in the D2 cell.

Calculate the total of the sales for North area
To enter a computation, begin with a left parenthesis. The right parenthesis is inserted for you.
In the E2 cell, type (+ B2 C2 D2 and return

Start again from "to insert a new line"
and type the values which you want for the Centre areas and Southern, and calculate the total for each area

Insert a new line
cell A5,  enter TOTAL
Cell B5, calculate the total of January (+ B2 B3 B4)
Cell C5 calculate the total of February
cell D5 calculate the total of March

3. To move in the spreadsheet

j (ses-jump) Moves point to cell, specified by identifier.

You can also move with arrows keys

4. Entering a formula

Number : To enter a number in the current cell, just typing it
	 To enter a negative number , type the minus sign and your number
	 The separator for the decimals is the point.

Text :	To enter a string, begin with a double quote. The ending double-quote is inserted for you.

Calculation : begin with à left-parenthesis, the right parenthesis is inserted for you.
Caution : insert a space between each cell identifier

To do a sum  		example : (+ A B C1)
To do a subtraction	example : (- A1 B1 C1)
To do a multiplication  example : (* A1 B1 C1)
To do a decision	example : (/ A1 B1)

Sum of contiguous cells	 (apply '+(ses-range A1 A12))
Multiplication of contiguous cells	 (apply '*(ses-range A1 A12))
MAX  to find the value maximum	 example : (MAX A1 B1 C1)
MIN  to find the value minimum	 example : (MIN A1 B1 C1)

5. To edit the contents of a cell
To edit the existing formula in the current cell, press the Enter Key.

6. Resizing the spreadsheet

   6.1 Insert-Delete rows and columns

   C-o (ses-insert-row) to insert a line above the current line
   M-o (ses-insert-column) insert a column before the current column
   C-k (ses-delete-row) delete the current line
   M-k (ses-delete-column) delete the current column

   TAB : moves point to the next rightward cell,
      or insert a new column if already at last cell on line
      or insert a new row if at end line

   C-j : linefeed inserts below the current rows.

   6.2  Entering a printer function

   Printer functions convert binary cell values into the print forms that Emacs will display on the screen.

   w (width)	change the current column width (by default, 7)
   p		change the print form of the current cell
   M-p		change the print form of the current column

   Printer form begins by % and finished by ". The default printer is "%.7g". With this format, you can type the numbers which you want with a comma where wish it to you.

   Decimal : "%.f"	example: "%.2f" two digits after the coma

   exponential : "%.e"
   example "%.2e" if the content of the cell is 120, you will obtain 1.20e+02

   base 8 : "%.o"
   convert the value

